src/content/community/Community-Users.md, before:

---
title: GraphQL for Users
layout: docs
category: Community
permalink: /community/users/
next: /community/developers/
sublinks: Training courses,Where to ask questions,Blogs,Videos,Books,More resources
---

The following resources are intended to help users and implementers. Find something useful? Please add it to the list!

_Please note that the GraphQL Foundation does not provide support or services, and cannot recommend one vendor's product over another._

## Training courses

A number of GraphQL training courses are available.

- [Exploring GraphQL: A Query Language For APIs](https://www.edx.org/course/exploring-graphql-a-query-language-for-apis): A free 7 week edX course, developed by [Linux Foundation Training](https://training.linuxfoundation.org)
- [How to GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com): The Fullstack Tutorial for GraphQL
- [Apollo Odyssey](https://apollographql.com/tutorials/): Interactive courses for building GraphQL applications with Apollo's toolset
- [Yoga GraphQL Server Tutorial](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server/tutorial): Open source tutorial for creating modern GraphQL Servers in Node, CF Workers, Deno and others

## Where to ask questions

### Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask and answer questions. If you're running into an implementation issue or having trouble with a query, this is the best place to start.

[Read through the existing questions tagged with **graphql** or ask your own!](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/graphql)

### Live discussion

Many GraphQL developers idle in Discord, Slack, and IRC for live
communication and can answer quick questions.

Please be patient and polite. These are not explicitly user support channels, although they're likely a good place to find someone who can answer your question if you ask nicely.

<div style="float:right;"><iframe src="https://discordapp.com/widget?id=625400653321076807&theme=dark" width="350" height="250" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" sandbox="allow-popups allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox allow-same-origin allow-scripts"></iframe></div>

- [GraphQL Foundation Discord](https://discord.graphql.org)
- [GraphQL Reddit Community](https://www.reddit.com/r/graphql/)
- [GraphQL Community Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/graphql.community/)
- [#help-graphql on the ReactiFlux Discord](http://join.reactiflux.com/)
- [#graphql on freenode IRC](https://freenode.net/)

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

### Vendor channels

The following channels are maintained by vendors, and may be a good place to find help on their products.

- [Apollo Slack](http://apollostack.com/#slack)
- [ChilliCream Slack](http://slack.chillicream.com/)
- [Graphile Discord](https://discord.gg/graphile)
- [Prisma Slack](https://slack.prisma.io/)
- [Stellate Discord](https://go.stellate.co/community)

## Blogs and Newsletters

Popular sources to learn and keep track of the GraphQL Ecosystem

- [Official GraphQL Blog](https://graphql.org/blog/)
- [Apollo's Blog](https://www.apollographql.com/blog/)
- [ChilliCream's Blog](https://chillicream.com/blog)
- [DEV.to GraphQL tag](https://dev.to/t/graphql)
- [Escape Security Blog](https://escape.tech/blog/)
- [GraphQL Editor Blog](https://blog.graphqleditor.com/)
- [GraphQL WTF Episodes Feed](https://graphql.wtf/)
- [GraphQL Weekly](https://www.graphqlweekly.com/)
- [Hasura's Blog](https://hasura.io/blog/)
- [Inigo's Security Blog](https://inigo.io/blog)
- [StepZen's Blog](https://stepzen.com/blog)
- [The Guild's Blog](https://the-guild.dev/blog)
- [The Guild's Newsletter](https://www.getrevue.co/profile/TheGuild)
- [WunderGraph's Blog](https://wundergraph.com/blog)

### Individual Posts

Here are a list of notable blog posts to help you better understand GraphQL:

- [GraphQL: A data query language](/blog/graphql-a-query-language/) - Lee Byron
- [Subscriptions in GraphQL and Relay](/blog/subscriptions-in-graphql-and-relay/) - Dan Schafer and Laney Kuenzel
- [Mocking your server is easy with GraphQL](/blog/mocking-with-graphql/) - Jonas Helfer
- [Wrapping a REST API in GraphQL](/blog/rest-api-graphql-wrapper/) - Steven Luscher
- [Leaving technical preview](/blog/production-ready/) - Lee Byron
- [Relicensing the GraphQL specification](https://medium.com/@leeb/relicensing-the-graphql-specification-e7d07a52301b) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Introduction](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2015/05/01/graphql-introduction.html) - Nick Schrock
- [From REST to GraphQL](https://0x2a.sh/from-rest-to-graphql-b4e95e94c26b#.tag7nzkrb) - Jacob Gillespie
- [GraphQL Explained](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/graphql-explained-5844742f195e#.zdykxos6i) - Jonas Helfer
- [GraphQL Concepts Visualized](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/the-concepts-of-graphql-bc68bd819be3#.hfczgtdsj) - Dhaivat Pandya
- [Building the f8 App: Using GraphQL & Relay](http://makeitopen.com/docs/en/1-A2-relay.html)
- [Your First GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/the-graphqlhub/your-first-graphql-server-3c766ab4f0a2#.ovn0y19k4) - Clay Allsopp
- [Tutorial: Kick start a JS API with Apollo-server, Dataloader and Knex](https://bamtech.gitbook.io/dev-standards/backend/graphql-js/getting-started-with-apollo-server-dataloader-knex.mo) - Thomas Pucci
- [Tutorial: How to Build a GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/tutorial-building-a-graphql-server-cddaa023c035#.bu6sdnst4) - Jonas Helfer
- [Designing Powerful APIs with GraphQL Query Parameters](https://www.graph.cool/docs/tutorials/designing-powerful-apis-with-graphql-query-parameters-aing7uech3/) - Johannes Schickling
- [GraphQL and the amazing Apollo Client](https://medium.com/google-developer-experts/graphql-and-the-amazing-apollo-client-fe57e162a70c) - Gerard Sans
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part I): The Schema](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-schema-ac5e2950214e) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part II): The Network Layer](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-network-layer-51d97d21861) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part III): Demystifying the `info` argument in GraphQL resolvers](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-demystifying-the-info-argument-in-graphql-resolvers-6f26249f613a) - Nikolas Burk
- [A Beginner’s Guide to GraphQL](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-guide-to-graphql-86f849ce1bec/) - Leonardo Maldonado
- [Architecture of a high performance GraphQL to SQL engine](https://blog.hasura.io/architecture-of-a-high-performance-graphql-to-sql-server-58d9944b8a87) - Hasura

## Videos

Developers inside and outside of Facebook have given talks about GraphQL at conferences and meetups around the world. Here are some of our favorites:

- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQLzZf34FJ8) - Lee Byron, React Europe 2015
- [From Zero to GraphQL in 30 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBGzsb2UkeY) - Steve Luscher
- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9RgHXqH8J0) - Nick Schrock, @Scale 2015
- [GraphQL Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOudxKJXsjc) - Nick Schrock, React Rally 2015
- [GraphQL at Facebook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etax3aEe2dA) - Dan Schafer, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL Source Code Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYr6RX32Q) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ViXL0YQnioU) - Lee Byron & Laney Kuenzel
- [Apollo Client: Put GraphQL Data in Your UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1E0CbGeICo) - Sashko Stubailo
- [Relay 2 - simpler, faster, and more predictable](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEfUBN9dAI8) - Greg Hurrell
- [Build a GraphQL server for Node.js, using PostgreSQL/MySQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNPVqK_woRQ) - Lee Benson
- [A GraphQL Framework for Non-JS Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNoyPSrQyPs) - Syrus Akbary
- [Modernize Your Angular App with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8feZBidZcs) - Uri Goldshtein, AngularCamp 2016
- [GraphQL server tutorial for Node.js with SQL, MongoDB and REST ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHabPhgRUuU) - Jonas Helfer
- [Building Native Mobile Apps with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5rz3saDPJ8) - Martjin Walraven, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL in native applications](https://atscaleconference.com/videos/graphql-in-native-applications-at-scale/) - Igor Canadi & Alex Langenfeld, @Scale 2016
- [Build a GraphQL Backend with the Serverless Framework](https://acloud.guru/learn/serverless-with-graphql) - Ryan Brown
- [Build a Full GraphQL Backend in Under 5 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJ8pnYd6jPQ) - Michael Paris
- [GraphQL: From Zero to Scala](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ttypoLyRaU) - Jérémie Astori, Northeast Scala Symposium 2017
- [GraphQL in Production: Backend as a Service](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2NKoStGBvE) - Michael Paris & Vince Ning, GraphQL in Production Meetup SF August 2016
- [Development of real-time apps with GraphQL Node.js](https://youtu.be/yh_A6CEqsSM) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris, SF Node Meetup February 2017
- [Unleashing the power of GraphQL using Angular 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYpJ9pfugM8) - Gerard Sans, NG-BE 2016
- [Webinar Series: GraphQL Around The World](https://graphql-world.com/webinar) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris
- [All Talks from GraphQL Europe](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn2e1F9Rfr6n_WFm9fPE-_wYPrYvSTySt) - Lee Byron, Sashko Stubailo, Dan Schafer, Johannes Schickling and many more
- [Learning GraphQL with React and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/learning-graphql-react-and-relay-video) by Divyendu Singh
- [Hands-on GraphQL for Better RESTful Web Services (Video)](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/hands-graphql-better-restful-web-services-video) by Ashwin Hegde
- [A PostgreSQL backed GraphQL BaaS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=neIZcc8y3B0) by Tanmai Gopal

## Books

- [The GraphQL Guide](https://graphql.guide) by John Resig and Loren Sands-Ramshaw
- [Learning GraphQL](https://www.amazon.com/Learning-GraphQL-Declarative-Fetching-Modern/dp/1492030716/) by Eve Porcello and Alex Banks
- [Fullstack GraphQL](https://www.graphql.college/fullstack-graphql) by Julian Mayorga
- [Craft GraphQL APIs in Elixir with Absinthe](https://pragprog.com/book/wwgraphql/craft-graphql-apis-in-elixir-with-absinthe) by Bruce Williams and Ben Wilson
- [Learning GraphQL and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/learning-graphql-and-relay) by Samer Buna
- [Hands-on Full-Stack Web Development with GraphQL and React](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/hands-full-stack-web-development-graphql-and-react) by Sebastian Grebe
- [The Road to GraphQL](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-graphql-book/) by Robin Wieruch
- [Production Ready GraphQL](https://book.productionreadygraphql.com/) by Marc-Andre Giroux

## More Resources

To explore other community-developed resources and content about GraphQL, take a look at these sites:

- [Building Apollo](https://blog.apollographql.com)
- [awesome-graphql](https://github.com/chentsulin/awesome-graphql): A fantastic community maintained collection of libraries, resources, and more.
- [graphql-apis](https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-apis): A collective list of public GraphQL APIs.
- [GraphQL Screencasts](https://graphql.wtf): Learn something new with GraphQL, every week.

Commit message:

add graphql training courses from hasura (#1482)

src/content/community/Community-Users.md, after:

---
title: GraphQL for Users
layout: docs
category: Community
permalink: /community/users/
next: /community/developers/
sublinks: Training courses,Where to ask questions,Blogs,Videos,Books,More resources
---

The following resources are intended to help users and implementers. Find something useful? Please add it to the list!

_Please note that the GraphQL Foundation does not provide support or services, and cannot recommend one vendor's product over another._

## Training courses

A number of GraphQL training courses are available.

- [Exploring GraphQL: A Query Language For APIs](https://www.edx.org/course/exploring-graphql-a-query-language-for-apis): A free 7 week edX course, developed by [Linux Foundation Training](https://training.linuxfoundation.org)
- [How to GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com): The Fullstack Tutorial for GraphQL
- [Apollo Odyssey](https://apollographql.com/tutorials/): Interactive courses for building GraphQL applications with Apollo's toolset
- [Yoga GraphQL Server Tutorial](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server/tutorial): Open source tutorial for creating modern GraphQL Servers in Node, CF Workers, Deno and others
- [GraphQL Tutorials](https://hasura.io/learn/): Real World Fullstack GraphQL tutorials for developers by Hasura

## Where to ask questions

### Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask and answer questions. If you're running into an implementation issue or having trouble with a query, this is the best place to start.

[Read through the existing questions tagged with **graphql** or ask your own!](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/graphql)

### Live discussion

Many GraphQL developers idle in Discord, Slack, and IRC for live
communication and can answer quick questions.

Please be patient and polite. These are not explicitly user support channels, although they're likely a good place to find someone who can answer your question if you ask nicely.

<div style="float:right;"><iframe src="https://discordapp.com/widget?id=625400653321076807&theme=dark" width="350" height="250" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" sandbox="allow-popups allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox allow-same-origin allow-scripts"></iframe></div>

- [GraphQL Foundation Discord](https://discord.graphql.org)
- [GraphQL Reddit Community](https://www.reddit.com/r/graphql/)
- [GraphQL Community Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/graphql.community/)
- [#help-graphql on the ReactiFlux Discord](http://join.reactiflux.com/)
- [#graphql on freenode IRC](https://freenode.net/)

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

### Vendor channels

The following channels are maintained by vendors, and may be a good place to find help on their products.

- [Apollo Slack](http://apollostack.com/#slack)
- [ChilliCream Slack](http://slack.chillicream.com/)
- [Graphile Discord](https://discord.gg/graphile)
- [Prisma Slack](https://slack.prisma.io/)
- [Stellate Discord](https://go.stellate.co/community)

## Blogs and Newsletters

Popular sources to learn and keep track of the GraphQL Ecosystem

- [Official GraphQL Blog](https://graphql.org/blog/)
- [Apollo's Blog](https://www.apollographql.com/blog/)
- [ChilliCream's Blog](https://chillicream.com/blog)
- [DEV.to GraphQL tag](https://dev.to/t/graphql)
- [Escape Security Blog](https://escape.tech/blog/)
- [GraphQL Editor Blog](https://blog.graphqleditor.com/)
- [GraphQL WTF Episodes Feed](https://graphql.wtf/)
- [GraphQL Weekly](https://www.graphqlweekly.com/)
- [Hasura's Blog](https://hasura.io/blog/)
- [Inigo's Security Blog](https://inigo.io/blog)
- [StepZen's Blog](https://stepzen.com/blog)
- [The Guild's Blog](https://the-guild.dev/blog)
- [The Guild's Newsletter](https://www.getrevue.co/profile/TheGuild)
- [WunderGraph's Blog](https://wundergraph.com/blog)

### Individual Posts

Here are a list of notable blog posts to help you better understand GraphQL:

- [GraphQL: A data query language](/blog/graphql-a-query-language/) - Lee Byron
- [Subscriptions in GraphQL and Relay](/blog/subscriptions-in-graphql-and-relay/) - Dan Schafer and Laney Kuenzel
- [Mocking your server is easy with GraphQL](/blog/mocking-with-graphql/) - Jonas Helfer
- [Wrapping a REST API in GraphQL](/blog/rest-api-graphql-wrapper/) - Steven Luscher
- [Leaving technical preview](/blog/production-ready/) - Lee Byron
- [Relicensing the GraphQL specification](https://medium.com/@leeb/relicensing-the-graphql-specification-e7d07a52301b) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Introduction](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2015/05/01/graphql-introduction.html) - Nick Schrock
- [From REST to GraphQL](https://0x2a.sh/from-rest-to-graphql-b4e95e94c26b#.tag7nzkrb) - Jacob Gillespie
- [GraphQL Explained](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/graphql-explained-5844742f195e#.zdykxos6i) - Jonas Helfer
- [GraphQL Concepts Visualized](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/the-concepts-of-graphql-bc68bd819be3#.hfczgtdsj) - Dhaivat Pandya
- [Building the f8 App: Using GraphQL & Relay](http://makeitopen.com/docs/en/1-A2-relay.html)
- [Your First GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/the-graphqlhub/your-first-graphql-server-3c766ab4f0a2#.ovn0y19k4) - Clay Allsopp
- [Tutorial: Kick start a JS API with Apollo-server, Dataloader and Knex](https://bamtech.gitbook.io/dev-standards/backend/graphql-js/getting-started-with-apollo-server-dataloader-knex.mo) - Thomas Pucci
- [Tutorial: How to Build a GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/tutorial-building-a-graphql-server-cddaa023c035#.bu6sdnst4) - Jonas Helfer
- [Designing Powerful APIs with GraphQL Query Parameters](https://www.graph.cool/docs/tutorials/designing-powerful-apis-with-graphql-query-parameters-aing7uech3/) - Johannes Schickling
- [GraphQL and the amazing Apollo Client](https://medium.com/google-developer-experts/graphql-and-the-amazing-apollo-client-fe57e162a70c) - Gerard Sans
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part I): The Schema](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-schema-ac5e2950214e) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part II): The Network Layer](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-network-layer-51d97d21861) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part III): Demystifying the `info` argument in GraphQL resolvers](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-demystifying-the-info-argument-in-graphql-resolvers-6f26249f613a) - Nikolas Burk
- [A Beginner’s Guide to GraphQL](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-guide-to-graphql-86f849ce1bec/) - Leonardo Maldonado
- [Architecture of a high performance GraphQL to SQL engine](https://blog.hasura.io/architecture-of-a-high-performance-graphql-to-sql-server-58d9944b8a87) - Hasura

## Videos

Developers inside and outside of Facebook have given talks about GraphQL at conferences and meetups around the world. Here are some of our favorites:

- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQLzZf34FJ8) - Lee Byron, React Europe 2015
- [From Zero to GraphQL in 30 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBGzsb2UkeY) - Steve Luscher
- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9RgHXqH8J0) - Nick Schrock, @Scale 2015
- [GraphQL Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOudxKJXsjc) - Nick Schrock, React Rally 2015
- [GraphQL at Facebook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etax3aEe2dA) - Dan Schafer, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL Source Code Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYr6RX32Q) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ViXL0YQnioU) - Lee Byron & Laney Kuenzel
- [Apollo Client: Put GraphQL Data in Your UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1E0CbGeICo) - Sashko Stubailo
- [Relay 2 - simpler, faster, and more predictable](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEfUBN9dAI8) - Greg Hurrell
- [Build a GraphQL server for Node.js, using PostgreSQL/MySQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNPVqK_woRQ) - Lee Benson
- [A GraphQL Framework for Non-JS Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNoyPSrQyPs) - Syrus Akbary
- [Modernize Your Angular App with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8feZBidZcs) - Uri Goldshtein, AngularCamp 2016
- [GraphQL server tutorial for Node.js with SQL, MongoDB and REST ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHabPhgRUuU) - Jonas Helfer
- [Building Native Mobile Apps with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5rz3saDPJ8) - Martjin Walraven, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL in native applications](https://atscaleconference.com/videos/graphql-in-native-applications-at-scale/) - Igor Canadi & Alex Langenfeld, @Scale 2016
- [Build a GraphQL Backend with the Serverless Framework](https://acloud.guru/learn/serverless-with-graphql) - Ryan Brown
- [Build a Full GraphQL Backend in Under 5 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJ8pnYd6jPQ) - Michael Paris
- [GraphQL: From Zero to Scala](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ttypoLyRaU) - Jérémie Astori, Northeast Scala Symposium 2017
- [GraphQL in Production: Backend as a Service](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2NKoStGBvE) - Michael Paris & Vince Ning, GraphQL in Production Meetup SF August 2016
- [Development of real-time apps with GraphQL Node.js](https://youtu.be/yh_A6CEqsSM) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris, SF Node Meetup February 2017
- [Unleashing the power of GraphQL using Angular 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYpJ9pfugM8) - Gerard Sans, NG-BE 2016
- [Webinar Series: GraphQL Around The World](https://graphql-world.com/webinar) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris
- [All Talks from GraphQL Europe](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn2e1F9Rfr6n_WFm9fPE-_wYPrYvSTySt) - Lee Byron, Sashko Stubailo, Dan Schafer, Johannes Schickling and many more
- [Learning GraphQL with React and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/learning-graphql-react-and-relay-video) by Divyendu Singh
- [Hands-on GraphQL for Better RESTful Web Services (Video)](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/hands-graphql-better-restful-web-services-video) by Ashwin Hegde
- [A PostgreSQL backed GraphQL BaaS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=neIZcc8y3B0) by Tanmai Gopal

## Books

- [The GraphQL Guide](https://graphql.guide) by John Resig and Loren Sands-Ramshaw
- [Learning GraphQL](https://www.amazon.com/Learning-GraphQL-Declarative-Fetching-Modern/dp/1492030716/) by Eve Porcello and Alex Banks
- [Fullstack GraphQL](https://www.graphql.college/fullstack-graphql) by Julian Mayorga
- [Craft GraphQL APIs in Elixir with Absinthe](https://pragprog.com/book/wwgraphql/craft-graphql-apis-in-elixir-with-absinthe) by Bruce Williams and Ben Wilson
- [Learning GraphQL and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/learning-graphql-and-relay) by Samer Buna
- [Hands-on Full-Stack Web Development with GraphQL and React](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/hands-full-stack-web-development-graphql-and-react) by Sebastian Grebe
- [The Road to GraphQL](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-graphql-book/) by Robin Wieruch
- [Production Ready GraphQL](https://book.productionreadygraphql.com/) by Marc-Andre Giroux

## More Resources

To explore other community-developed resources and content about GraphQL, take a look at these sites:

- [Building Apollo](https://blog.apollographql.com)
- [awesome-graphql](https://github.com/chentsulin/awesome-graphql): A fantastic community maintained collection of libraries, resources, and more.
- [graphql-apis](https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-apis): A collective list of public GraphQL APIs.
- [GraphQL Screencasts](https://graphql.wtf): Learn something new with GraphQL, every week.
