src/content/community/Community-Resources.md, before:

---
title: Community Resources
layout: docs
category: Community
permalink: /community/
next: /community/users/
sublinks: Official channels,GraphQL Trademark,Code of conduct
---

The GraphQL community is worldwide, and includes developers, users, supporters, and fans from around the globe. You are welcome to join us!

If you're new to the community, here are a few things to get you started.

## Official channels

The GraphQL community is active and has created a tremendous amount of valuable content, but we maintain a number of primary collaboration channels for the project.

Please follow these channels for updates and information:

<div style="float:right;"><iframe src="https://discordapp.com/widget?id=625400653321076807&theme=dark" width="350" height="300" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" sandbox="allow-popups allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox allow-same-origin allow-scripts"></iframe></div>

* **Twitter:** [@graphql](https://twitter.com/graphql)
* **GitHub:** [github.com/graphql](https://github.com/graphql)
* **Discord** [discord.graphql.org](https://discord.graphql.org)
  * We're in the process of moving our official chat to Discord, but you may find historical discussion on ~~**Slack:** [slack.graphql.org](https://slack.graphql.org) ([get an invite](https://slack-invite.graphql.org))~~.
* **Facebook Group:** [fb.com/groups/graphql.community/](https://www.facebook.com/groups/graphql.community/)
* **Google Calendar:** [calendar.graphql.org](https://calendar.graphql.org)
* **Blog:** [graphql.org/blog](/blog/)

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

## GraphQL Logo & Trademark

The GraphQL name and logo are registered trademarks, and are neutrally held by The Linux Foundation. You may use the GraphQL mark so long as you adhere to the [trademark policy](https://lfprojects.org/policies/trademark-policy/).

Download the GraphQL logo and find guidelines for its use in the [brand guidelines](/brand).

## Code of conduct

The [GraphQL Code of Conduct](/codeofconduct/) applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the project or its community.

## More information

Keep reading to find [resources for users](/community/users/), [information for developers](/community/developers/), and [upcoming GraphQL-related events](/community/upcoming-events/).

Commit message:

Add information on the community grant program
Signed-off-by: Brian Warner <brian@bdwarner.com>

src/content/community/Community-Resources.md, after:

---
title: Community Resources
layout: docs
category: Community
permalink: /community/
next: /community/users/
sublinks: Official channels,GraphQL Trademark,Code of conduct
---

The GraphQL community is worldwide, and includes developers, users, supporters, and fans from around the globe. You are welcome to join us!

If you're new to the community, here are a few things to get you started.

## Official channels

The GraphQL community is active and has created a tremendous amount of valuable content, but we maintain a number of primary collaboration channels for the project.

Please follow these channels for updates and information:

<div style="float:right;"><iframe src="https://discordapp.com/widget?id=625400653321076807&theme=dark" width="350" height="300" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" sandbox="allow-popups allow-popups-to-escape-sandbox allow-same-origin allow-scripts"></iframe></div>

* **Twitter:** [@graphql](https://twitter.com/graphql)
* **GitHub:** [github.com/graphql](https://github.com/graphql)
* **Discord** [discord.graphql.org](https://discord.graphql.org)
  * We're in the process of moving our official chat to Discord, but you may find historical discussion on ~~**Slack:** [slack.graphql.org](https://slack.graphql.org) ([get an invite](https://slack-invite.graphql.org))~~.
* **Facebook Group:** [fb.com/groups/graphql.community/](https://www.facebook.com/groups/graphql.community/)
* **Google Calendar:** [calendar.graphql.org](https://calendar.graphql.org)
* **Blog:** [graphql.org/blog](/blog/)

<div style="clear:both;"></div>

## GraphQL Logo & Trademark

The GraphQL name and logo are registered trademarks, and are neutrally held by The Linux Foundation. You may use the GraphQL mark so long as you adhere to the [trademark policy](https://lfprojects.org/policies/trademark-policy/).

Download the GraphQL logo and find guidelines for its use in the [brand guidelines](/brand).

## Community Grant Program

The [GraphQL Foundation](/foundation) funds a [community grant program](/foundation/community-grant-program) that is administered by the [GraphQL TSC](/community/developers/#technical-governance). The goal of the community grant program is to provide support to individuals working on initiatives that benefit the community at large.

## Code of conduct

The [GraphQL Code of Conduct](/codeofconduct/) applies both within project spaces and in public spaces when an individual is representing the project or its community.

## More information

Keep reading to find [resources for users](/community/users/), [information for developers](/community/developers/), and [upcoming GraphQL-related events](/community/upcoming-events/).
