CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to graphql.org

> This repository is governed by the [GraphQL Code of Conduct](https://graphql.org/codeofconduct/). By contributing, you agree to abide by its terms.

Thanks for taking the time to contribute! The GraphQL community is great because of people like you 🎉 

There are many ways to get involved. Follow this guide and feel free to [reach out if you have questions](#asking-questions).

## What's in this document

- [Development guide](#development-guide)
    - [Running the site locally](#running-the-site-locally)
    - [Branching](#branching)
    - [Project structure](#project-structure)
    - [Publishing the updated site](#publishing-the-updated-site)
- [Updating content](#updating-content)
    - [Fix a typo, code sample bug, or formatting](#fix-a-typo-code-sample-bug-or-formatting)
    - [Add a library or tool to the Code page](#add-a-library-or-tool-to-the-code-page)
    - [Add a resource to the Community page](#add-a-resource-to-the-community-page)
    - [Add a question to the FAQ](#add-a-question-to-the-faq)
    - [Write a new section or guide](#write-a-new-section-or-guide)
- [Making changes to the code](#making-changes-to-the-code)
- [Contributing something else](#contributing-something-else)
- [Asking questions](#asking-questions)

## Development guide

### Running the site locally

First, clone this repository and move into the directory: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io.git
cd graphql.github.io
```

Then, use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) to install and load all the necessary dependencies:

```bash
yarn 
```

> Note: [Yarn is currently the only way to run the site locally](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/946).

Run the `start` script to launch the server:

```bash
yarn start
```

Finally, open [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) to view it in the browser.

The GraphQL website is built with [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/). This means that a hot-reloading development environment will be accessible by default. 

### Branching

Active development for graphql.org happens on the `source` branch. Be sure to create any new branches or direct any pull requests back to `source`. 

### Project structure

- `static`: Files that will be copied directly to `public`. 
- `public`: Output files that will be served by a static HTTP server.
- `src`: Markdown and the TypeScript/JavaScript files used to generate the website.
    - `assets`: All the [`less`](http://lesscss.org/) files that contain stylesheets.
    - `components` and `Containers`: React components used for layouts and pages.
    - `content`: Markdown files with the content of pages.
    - `templates`: Layout templates.
    - `utils`: Helper functions.

### Publishing the updated site

Your changes will be merged into the `source` branch. Then, the CI will automatically publish a new version of http://graphql.org via [Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/).

## Updating content

### Fix a typo, code sample bug, or formatting

If you notice something wrong in the text or code samples, please follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls) with your fix. 

All of the content on graphql.org is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/).

### Add a library or tool to the Code page

The [Code page](https://graphql.org/code/) is a collection of libraries, tools, and services built for GraphQL. 

To add your resource to this page, follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls). 

The content for this page is located in [various directories under `src/content/code`](./src/). Everything is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/).

### Add a resource to the Community page

The [Community page](https://graphql.org/community/) highlights resources and groups that help people get more involved with GraphQL.

To add something to this page, follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls). 

The content for this page is located in a [directory under `src/content/community`](./src/). Everything is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/).

### Add a question to the FAQ

Our [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) page](https://graphql.org/faq/) is designed to help answer questions from the community. This page is still in development, so if you think there's a question missing - please [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new)! It'd be great if you could include both the question and a proposed answer outline in the issue description.

Once you have approval from a maintainer, use the [development guide](#development-guide) to add your question and answer. The content for the FAQ is located in [`src/content/faq`](./src/content/faq/). Each section has its own [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/) file.

> Note: All answers in this section should be vendor-neutral and accessible to GraphQL users of all levels.

When your answer is ready, [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls/).

### Write a new section or guide

There are still several [Best Practices guides that no one has written](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/41) yet. If you want to take one of these, comment on [the original issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/41) and mention which topic you'll work on.

Then, use our [development guide](#development-guide) to determine where your new page best fits. Our documentation is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/). 

Once it's ready for review, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls/).

## Making changes to the code

Before diving into any code updates, please [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new) describing the change(s) you'd like to make.

If you're working off an [existing issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/), follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to make your changes. Once it's ready for review, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls/) and reference the original issue.

## Contributing something else

Interested in adding something not covered in this guide? Please [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new) and tell us all about your idea.

## Asking questions

If you run into any problems or have questions while contributing, you're always welcome to [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new). 

You can also ping our team in the [#website channel on the GraphQL Slack](https://graphql.slack.com/messages/website/). [Get your invite here!](https://graphql-slack.herokuapp.com/)

Commit message:

Updating contributing guidelines for Code page

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to graphql.org

> This repository is governed by the [GraphQL Code of Conduct](https://graphql.org/codeofconduct/). By contributing, you agree to abide by its terms.

Thanks for taking the time to contribute! The GraphQL community is great because of people like you 🎉 

There are many ways to get involved. Follow this guide and feel free to [reach out if you have questions](#asking-questions).

## What's in this document

- [Development guide](#development-guide)
    - [Running the site locally](#running-the-site-locally)
    - [Branching](#branching)
    - [Project structure](#project-structure)
    - [Publishing the updated site](#publishing-the-updated-site)
- [Updating content](#updating-content)
    - [Fix a typo, code sample bug, or formatting](#fix-a-typo-code-sample-bug-or-formatting)
    - [Add a library or tool to the Code page](#add-a-library-or-tool-to-the-code-page)
    - [Add a resource to the Community page](#add-a-resource-to-the-community-page)
    - [Add a question to the FAQ](#add-a-question-to-the-faq)
    - [Write a new section or guide](#write-a-new-section-or-guide)
- [Making changes to the code](#making-changes-to-the-code)
- [Contributing something else](#contributing-something-else)
- [Asking questions](#asking-questions)

## Development guide

### Running the site locally

First, clone this repository and move into the directory: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io.git
cd graphql.github.io
```

Then, use [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install) to install and load all the necessary dependencies:

```bash
yarn 
```

> Note: [Yarn is currently the only way to run the site locally](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/946).

Run the `start` script to launch the server:

```bash
yarn start
```

Finally, open [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000) to view it in the browser.

The GraphQL website is built with [Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/). This means that a hot-reloading development environment will be accessible by default. 

### Branching

Active development for graphql.org happens on the `source` branch. Be sure to create any new branches or direct any pull requests back to `source`. 

### Project structure

- `static`: Files that will be copied directly to `public`. 
- `public`: Output files that will be served by a static HTTP server.
- `src`: Markdown and the TypeScript/JavaScript files used to generate the website.
    - `assets`: All the [`less`](http://lesscss.org/) files that contain stylesheets.
    - `components` and `Containers`: React components used for layouts and pages.
    - `content`: Markdown files with the content of pages.
    - `templates`: Layout templates.
    - `utils`: Helper functions.

### Publishing the updated site

Your changes will be merged into the `source` branch. Then, the CI will automatically publish a new version of http://graphql.org via [Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/).

## Updating content

### Fix a typo, code sample bug, or formatting

If you notice something wrong in the text or code samples, please follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls) with your fix. 

All of the content on graphql.org is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/).

### Add a library, tool, or service to the Code page

The [Code page](https://graphql.org/code/) is a collection of libraries, tools, and services built for GraphQL.

#### General guidelines

**Adding a resource:**
- With rare exceptions, any pull request that adds a new library, tool, or service to the Code page will be accepted.
- Any library should include a few paragraphs describing the usage and offering people a chance to grok the project priorities.
- If there isn't a section already for your programming language, please add it. 

If it isn't a library, tool, or service - then it could go into the community section. If it doesn't fit in any of these cases, then ping me or Ivan and we can figure out if/where it can live.

**Removing a resource:**
- Services that don't work anymore
- Code repositories that are archived
- Projects declared to be abandoned by their maintainers
- Any link that 404s

We rely on these concrete signals before removing a resource. Even if a project hasn't been released in a few years, that doesn't mean that it's not working. 

#### Workflow

To add or remove a resource to this page, follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls). 

The content for this page is located in [various directories under `src/content/code`](./src/). Everything is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/).

### Add a resource to the Community page

The [Community page](https://graphql.org/community/) highlights resources and groups that help people get more involved with GraphQL.

To add something to this page, follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls). 

The content for this page is located in a [directory under `src/content/community`](./src/). Everything is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/).

### Add a question to the FAQ

Our [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) page](https://graphql.org/faq/) is designed to help answer questions from the community. This page is still in development, so if you think there's a question missing - please [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new)! It'd be great if you could include both the question and a proposed answer outline in the issue description.

Once you have approval from a maintainer, use the [development guide](#development-guide) to add your question and answer. The content for the FAQ is located in [`src/content/faq`](./src/content/faq/). Each section has its own [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/) file.

> Note: All answers in this section should be vendor-neutral and accessible to GraphQL users of all levels.

When your answer is ready, [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls/).

### Write a new section or guide

There are still several [Best Practices guides that no one has written](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/41) yet. If you want to take one of these, comment on [the original issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/41) and mention which topic you'll work on.

Then, use our [development guide](#development-guide) to determine where your new page best fits. Our documentation is written and formatted in [Markdown](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/mdx/markdown-syntax/). 

Once it's ready for review, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls/).

## Making changes to the code

Before diving into any code updates, please [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new) describing the change(s) you'd like to make.

If you're working off an [existing issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/), follow our [development guide](#development-guide) to make your changes. Once it's ready for review, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/pulls/) and reference the original issue.

## Contributing something else

Interested in adding something not covered in this guide? Please [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new) and tell us all about your idea.

## Asking questions

If you run into any problems or have questions while contributing, you're always welcome to [open an issue](https://github.com/graphql/graphql.github.io/issues/new). 

You can also ping our team in the [#website channel on the GraphQL Slack](https://graphql.slack.com/messages/website/). [Get your invite here!](https://graphql-slack.herokuapp.com/)
