README.md, before:

# Source Repository for graphql.org

This repository contains the source code for the [GraphQL website](https://graphql.org).

> You can find more discussions on the [#website channel on the GraphQL Slack](https://graphql.slack.com/messages/website/). [Get your invite here!](https://graphql-slack.herokuapp.com/) 


A brief overview: **GraphQL** is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data. It provides a complete and understandable description of the data in your API, gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need, and enables powerful developer tools. The [specification](https://spec.graphql.org/) is open source and governed by the [GraphQL Foundation](https://foundation.graphql.org/). 

## Documentation
- [Site](https://graphql.org/)
- [Reference documentation](https://graphql.org/learn/)
- [Language support, tools, and services](https://graphql.org/code/)
- [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)](https://graphql.org/faq/)
- [Community resources](https://graphql.org/community/)

## How to contribute
Check out our [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions on how to make changes to the GraphQL website 🎉

Commit message:

Add a note about where builds are in the Areadme

README.md, after:

# Source Repository for graphql.org

This repository contains the source code for the [GraphQL website](https://graphql.org).

> You can find more discussions on the [#website channel on the GraphQL Slack](https://graphql.slack.com/messages/website/). [Get your invite here!](https://graphql-slack.herokuapp.com/) 


A brief overview: **GraphQL** is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data. It provides a complete and understandable description of the data in your API, gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need, and enables powerful developer tools. The [specification](https://spec.graphql.org/) is open source and governed by the [GraphQL Foundation](https://foundation.graphql.org/). 

## Documentation
- [Site](https://graphql.org/)
- [Reference documentation](https://graphql.org/learn/)
- [Language support, tools, and services](https://graphql.org/code/)
- [Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)](https://graphql.org/faq/)
- [Community resources](https://graphql.org/community/)

## Deployment

The site is deployed via Netlify on merges to the source branch, you can see the [builds here](https://app.netlify.com/teams/graphql-org/builds).

## How to contribute
Check out our [contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions on how to make changes to the GraphQL website 🎉
