---
title: "Launching the GraphQL Local Initiative"
tags: ["blog"]
date: 2024-07-22
byline: Benjie Gillam and Jory Burson
---

The GraphQL Foundation's primary mission is to ensure the continued evolution of
the GraphQL specification and reference implementations. As part of this
mission, we strive to provide collaboration infrastructure that fosters a
culture of community and innovation. Local get-togethers play a crucial role in
this, bringing together developers, library maintainers, vendors, and
enthusiasts to share knowledge and collaborate.

This is why we're pleased to announce the launch of the **GraphQL Local
Initiative**. This initiative aims to recognize and support local efforts by
providing a framework and resources for organizing local GraphQL events.

## What the GraphQL Local Initiative Offers

We recognize how much effort is required to organize local events: from finding
venues, speakers, sponsors and refreshments to preparing slides, driving
awareness, ensuring inclusivity, and much more - there's a lot to do! The
GraphQL Local Initiative enables us to lighten your load a little by offering a
modest sponsorship, slide templates, code of conduct, guidelines, swag,
promotion, and more.

## Requirements for GraphQL Locals

To ensure the success and consistency of these local events, organizers must
adhere to the GraphQL Code of Conduct and Brand Guidelines, and ensure events
are inclusive and accessible. For the full list of requirements, see the
[program page](/community/foundation/local-initiative).

## How to Get Involved

We encourage all community members passionate about GraphQL to get involved.
Whether you want to organize an event in your local city or simply participate,
your involvement helps strengthen the GraphQL community.

To find out more and apply for official recognition and support for your local
event, please
[visit the GraphQL Local Initiative page](/community/foundation/local-initiative).

Letâ€™s keep building a vibrant, supportive, and innovative GraphQL community
together!
