src/pages/graphql-js/execution.mdx, before:

---
title: graphql/execution
---

The `graphql/execution` module is responsible for the execution phase of
fulfilling a GraphQL request. You can import either from the `graphql/execution` module, or from the root `graphql` module. For example:

```js
import { execute } from "graphql" // ES6
var { execute } = require("graphql") // CommonJS
```

## Overview

<ul className="apiIndex">
  <li>
    <a href="#execute">
      `function execute` Executes a GraphQL request on the provided schema.
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Execution

### execute

```ts
export function execute(
  schema: GraphQLSchema,
  documentAST: Document,
  rootValue?: mixed,
  contextValue?: mixed,
  variableValues?: {[key: string]: mixed},
  operationName?: string
): MaybePromise<ExecutionResult>

type MaybePromise<T> = Promise<T> | T;

type ExecutionResult = {
  data: Object;
  errors?: GraphQLError[];
}
```

Implements the "Evaluating requests" section of the GraphQL specification.

Returns a Promise that will eventually be resolved and never rejected.

If the arguments to this function do not result in a legal execution context,
a GraphQLError will be thrown immediately explaining the invalid input.

`ExecutionResult` represents the result of execution. `data` is the result of
executing the query, `errors` is null if no errors occurred, and is a
non-empty array if an error occurred.

Commit message:

ensure h1 `# ...` is a first heading on pages, fix 100vh height for 404 page on mobiles (#1669)
* more

* more

* more

* more

* fix height for 404 page

* remove

* remove some spaces to keep height for all examples less for 2 lines

src/pages/graphql-js/execution.mdx, after:

---
title: graphql/execution
---

{/* title can be removed in Nextra 4, since sidebar title will take from first h1 */}

# `graphql/execution`

The `graphql/execution` module is responsible for the execution phase of
fulfilling a GraphQL request. You can import either from the `graphql/execution` module, or from the root `graphql` module. For example:

```js
import { execute } from "graphql" // ES6
var { execute } = require("graphql") // CommonJS
```

## Overview

<ul className="apiIndex">
  <li>
    <a href="#execute">
      `function execute` Executes a GraphQL request on the provided schema.
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

## Execution

### execute

```ts
export function execute(
  schema: GraphQLSchema,
  documentAST: Document,
  rootValue?: mixed,
  contextValue?: mixed,
  variableValues?: {[key: string]: mixed},
  operationName?: string
): MaybePromise<ExecutionResult>

type MaybePromise<T> = Promise<T> | T;

type ExecutionResult = {
  data: Object;
  errors?: GraphQLError[];
}
```

Implements the "Evaluating requests" section of the GraphQL specification.

Returns a Promise that will eventually be resolved and never rejected.

If the arguments to this function do not result in a legal execution context,
a GraphQLError will be thrown immediately explaining the invalid input.

`ExecutionResult` represents the result of execution. `data` is the result of
executing the query, `errors` is null if no errors occurred, and is a
non-empty array if an error occurred.
