src/pages/graphql-js/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started With GraphQL.js
sidebarTitle: Getting Started
---

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, you should have Node v6 installed, although the examples should mostly work in previous versions of Node as well. For this guide, we won't use any language features that require transpilation, but we will use some ES6 features like [Promises](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/es6/promises/), [classes](http://javascriptplayground.com/blog/2014/07/introduction-to-es6-classes-tutorial/), and [fat arrow functions](https://strongloop.com/strongblog/an-introduction-to-javascript-es6-arrow-functions/), so if you aren't familiar with them you might want to read up on them first.

To create a new project and install GraphQL.js in your current directory:

```bash
npm init
npm install graphql --save
```

## Writing Code

To handle GraphQL queries, we need a schema that defines the `Query` type, and we need an API root with a function called a “resolver” for each API endpoint. For an API that just returns “Hello world!”, we can put this code in a file named `server.js`:

```javascript
var { graphql, buildSchema } = require("graphql")

// Construct a schema, using GraphQL schema language
var schema = buildSchema(`
  type Query {
    hello: String
  }
`)

// The rootValue provides a resolver function for each API endpoint
var rootValue = {
  hello() {
    return "Hello world!"
  }
}

// Run the GraphQL query '{ hello }' and print out the response
graphql({
  schema,
  source: "{ hello }",
  rootValue
}).then(response => {
  console.log(response)
})
```

If you run this with:

```sh
node server.js
```

You should see the GraphQL response printed out:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "hello": "Hello world!"
  }
}
```

Congratulations - you just executed a GraphQL query!

For practical applications, you'll probably want to run GraphQL queries from an API server, rather than executing GraphQL with a command line tool. To use GraphQL for an API server over HTTP, check out [Running an Express GraphQL Server](/graphql-js/running-an-express-graphql-server/).

Commit message:

ensure h1 `# ...` is a first heading on pages, fix 100vh height for 404 page on mobiles (#1669)
* more

* more

* more

* more

* fix height for 404 page

* remove

* remove some spaces to keep height for all examples less for 2 lines

src/pages/graphql-js/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started With GraphQL.js
sidebarTitle: Getting Started
---

{/* title can be removed in Nextra 4, since sidebar title will take from first h1 */}

# Getting Started With GraphQL.js

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, you should have Node v6 installed, although the examples should mostly work in previous versions of Node as well. For this guide, we won't use any language features that require transpilation, but we will use some ES6 features like [Promises](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/es6/promises/), [classes](http://javascriptplayground.com/blog/2014/07/introduction-to-es6-classes-tutorial/), and [fat arrow functions](https://strongloop.com/strongblog/an-introduction-to-javascript-es6-arrow-functions/), so if you aren't familiar with them you might want to read up on them first.

To create a new project and install GraphQL.js in your current directory:

```bash
npm init
npm install graphql --save
```

## Writing Code

To handle GraphQL queries, we need a schema that defines the `Query` type, and we need an API root with a function called a “resolver” for each API endpoint. For an API that just returns “Hello world!”, we can put this code in a file named `server.js`:

```javascript
var { graphql, buildSchema } = require("graphql")

// Construct a schema, using GraphQL schema language
var schema = buildSchema(`
  type Query {
    hello: String
  }
`)

// The rootValue provides a resolver function for each API endpoint
var rootValue = {
  hello() {
    return "Hello world!"
  }
}

// Run the GraphQL query '{ hello }' and print out the response
graphql({
  schema,
  source: "{ hello }",
  rootValue
}).then(response => {
  console.log(response)
})
```

If you run this with:

```sh
node server.js
```

You should see the GraphQL response printed out:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "hello": "Hello world!"
  }
}
```

Congratulations - you just executed a GraphQL query!

For practical applications, you'll probably want to run GraphQL queries from an API server, rather than executing GraphQL with a command line tool. To use GraphQL for an API server over HTTP, check out [Running an Express GraphQL Server](/graphql-js/running-an-express-graphql-server/).
