site/community/Community-Resources.md, before:

---
title: Community Resources
layout: ../_core/DocsLayout
category: Community
permalink: /community/
next: /community/upcoming-events/
sublinks: Blogs,Videos,Books,More Resources
---

## Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask and answer questions. [Read through the existing questions tagged with **graphql** or ask your own!](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/graphql)

## Facebook Group

Join the [GraphQL Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/graphql.community/) sharing and discovering new content. The GraphQL Facebook group is the preferred venue for announcements and broader discussion.

## Twitter

Use the [**#graphql** hashtag](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23GraphQL&src=tyah) on Twitter to join the conversation.

Here are some helpful accounts to follow:
- [@GraphQL](https://twitter.com/GraphQL)
- [@graphqlweekly](https://twitter.com/graphqlweekly)
- [@GraphQLStackOverflow](https://twitter.com/GraphQLatSO)
- [@apollographql](https://twitter.com/apollographql)
- [@prisma](https://twitter.com/prisma)
- [@HasuraHQ](https://twitter.com/HasuraHQ)

## IRC

Chat with GraphQL developers on IRC at the [freenode](https://freenode.net/) server on the #graphql channel.

## Slack & Discord

Many GraphQL developers idle in Discord and Slack chatrooms for live
communication and quick questions.

Join #graphql on the [ReactiFlux Discord](http://join.reactiflux.com/).

### Slack Communities:

- [**#general** on GraphQL](https://graphql.slack.com/messages/general/). [Get your invite here!](https://graphql-slack.herokuapp.com/)
- [Apollo Slack](http://apollostack.com/#slack)
- [Graphcool Slack](https://slack.graph.cool/)

## Blogs

Here are a list of notable blog posts to help you better understand GraphQL:

- [GraphQL: A data query language](/blog/graphql-a-query-language/) - Lee Byron
- [Subscriptions in GraphQL and Relay](/blog/subscriptions-in-graphql-and-relay/) - Dan Schafer and Laney Kuenzel
- [Mocking your server is easy with GraphQL](/blog/mocking-with-graphql/) - Jonas Helfer
- [Wrapping a REST API in GraphQL](/blog/rest-api-graphql-wrapper/) - Steven Luscher
- [Leaving technical preview](/blog/production-ready/) - Lee Byron
- [Relicensing the GraphQL specification](https://medium.com/@leeb/relicensing-the-graphql-specification-e7d07a52301b) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Introduction](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2015/05/01/graphql-introduction.html) - Nick Schrock
- [From REST to GraphQL](https://0x2a.sh/from-rest-to-graphql-b4e95e94c26b#.tag7nzkrb) - Jacob Gillespie
- [GraphQL Explained](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/graphql-explained-5844742f195e#.zdykxos6i) - Jonas Helfer
- [GraphQL Concepts Visualized](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/the-concepts-of-graphql-bc68bd819be3#.hfczgtdsj) - Dhaivat Pandya
- [Building the f8 App: Using GraphQL & Relay](http://makeitopen.com/docs/en/1-A2-relay.html)
- [Your First GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/the-graphqlhub/your-first-graphql-server-3c766ab4f0a2#.ovn0y19k4) - Clay Allsopp
- [Tutorial: Kick start a JS API with Apollo-server, Dataloader and Knex](https://bamtech.gitbook.io/dev-standards/backend/graphql-js/getting-started-with-apollo-server-dataloader-knex.mo) - Thomas Pucci
- [Tutorial: How to Build a GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/tutorial-building-a-graphql-server-cddaa023c035#.bu6sdnst4) - Jonas Helfer
- [Designing Powerful APIs with GraphQL Query Parameters](https://www.graph.cool/docs/tutorials/designing-powerful-apis-with-graphql-query-parameters-aing7uech3/) - Johannes Schickling
- [GraphQL and the amazing Apollo Client](https://medium.com/google-developer-experts/graphql-and-the-amazing-apollo-client-fe57e162a70c) - Gerard Sans
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part I): The Schema](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-schema-ac5e2950214e) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part II): The Network Layer](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-network-layer-51d97d21861) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part III): Demystifying the `info` argument in GraphQL resolvers](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-demystifying-the-info-argument-in-graphql-resolvers-6f26249f613a) - Nikolas Burk
- [A Beginner’s Guide to GraphQL](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-guide-to-graphql-86f849ce1bec/) - Leonardo Maldonado
- [Architecture of a high performance GraphQL to SQL engine](https://blog.hasura.io/architecture-of-a-high-performance-graphql-to-sql-server-58d9944b8a87) - Hasura

## Videos

Developers inside and outside of Facebook have given talks about GraphQL at conferences and meetups around the world. Here are some of our favorites:

- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQLzZf34FJ8) - Lee Byron, React Europe 2015
- [From Zero to GraphQL in 30 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBGzsb2UkeY) - Steve Luscher
- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9RgHXqH8J0) - Nick Schrock, @Scale 2015
- [GraphQL Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOudxKJXsjc) - Nick Schrock, React Rally 2015
- [GraphQL at Facebook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etax3aEe2dA) - Dan Schafer, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL Source Code Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYr6RX32Q) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ViXL0YQnioU) - Lee Byron & Laney Kuenzel
- [Apollo Client: Put GraphQL Data in Your UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1E0CbGeICo) - Sashko Stubailo
- [Relay 2 - simpler, faster, and more predictable](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEfUBN9dAI8) - Greg Hurrell
- [Build a GraphQL server for Node.js, using PostgreSQL/MySQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNPVqK_woRQ) - Lee Benson
- [A GraphQL Framework for Non-JS Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNoyPSrQyPs) - Syrus Akbary
- [Modernize Your Angular App with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8feZBidZcs) - Uri Goldshtein, AngularCamp 2016
- [GraphQL server tutorial for Node.js with SQL, MongoDB and REST ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHabPhgRUuU) - Jonas Helfer
- [Building Native Mobile Apps with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5rz3saDPJ8) - Martjin Walraven, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL in native applications](https://atscaleconference.com/videos/graphql-in-native-applications-at-scale/) - Igor Canadi & Alex Langenfeld, @Scale 2016
- [Build a GraphQL Backend with the Serverless Framework](https://acloud.guru/learn/serverless-with-graphql) - Ryan Brown
- [Build a Full GraphQL Backend in Under 5 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJ8pnYd6jPQ) - Michael Paris
- [GraphQL: From Zero to Scala](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ttypoLyRaU) - Jérémie Astori, Northeast Scala Symposium 2017
- [GraphQL in Production: Backend as a Service](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2NKoStGBvE) - Michael Paris & Vince Ning, GraphQL in Production Meetup SF August 2016
- [Development of real-time apps with GraphQL Node.js](https://youtu.be/yh_A6CEqsSM) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris, SF Node Meetup February 2017
- [Unleashing the power of GraphQL using Angular 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYpJ9pfugM8) - Gerard Sans, NG-BE 2016
- [Webinar Series: GraphQL Around The World](https://graphql-world.com/webinar) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris
- [All Talks from GraphQL Europe](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn2e1F9Rfr6n_WFm9fPE-_wYPrYvSTySt) - Lee Byron, Sashko Stubailo, Dan Schafer, Johannes Schickling and many more
- [Learning GraphQL with React and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/learning-graphql-react-and-relay-video) by Divyendu Singh
- [Hands-on GraphQL for Better RESTful Web Services (Video)](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/hands-graphql-better-restful-web-services-video) by Ashwin Hegde
- [A PostgreSQL backed GraphQL BaaS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=neIZcc8y3B0) by Tanmai Gopal

## Books

- [The GraphQL Guide](https://graphql.guide) by John Resig and Loren Sands-Ramshaw
- [Learning GraphQL](https://www.amazon.com/Learning-GraphQL-Declarative-Fetching-Modern/dp/1492030716/) by Eve Porcello and Alex Banks
- [Fullstack GraphQL](https://www.graphql.college/fullstack-graphql) by Julian Mayorga
- [Craft GraphQL APIs in Elixir with Absinthe](https://pragprog.com/book/wwgraphql/craft-graphql-apis-in-elixir-with-absinthe) by Bruce Williams and Ben Wilson
- [Learning GraphQL and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/learning-graphql-and-relay) by Samer Buna
- [The Road to GraphQL](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-graphql-book/) by Robin Wieruch

## More Resources

To explore other community-developed resources and content about GraphQL, take a look at these sites:

- [Exploring GraphQL: A Query Language For APIs](https://www.edx.org/course/exploring-graphql-a-query-language-for-apis): A free 7 week edX course
- [How to GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com): The Fullstack Tutorial for GraphQL
- [Building Apollo](https://blog.apollographql.com)
- [awesome-graphql](https://github.com/chentsulin/awesome-graphql): A fantastic community maintained collection of libraries, resources, and more.
- [graphql-apis](https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-apis): A collective list of public GraphQL APIs.
- [Basically, Full-stack GraphQL](https://github.com/TejasQ/basically-fullstack-graphql): A code-based introduction to working with GraphQL on the client _and_ server in plain English

Commit message:

update Community resources
Added new request to include newly published video titles

site/community/Community-Resources.md, after:

---
title: Community Resources
layout: ../_core/DocsLayout
category: Community
permalink: /community/
next: /community/upcoming-events/
sublinks: Blogs,Videos,Books,More Resources
---

## Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask and answer questions. [Read through the existing questions tagged with **graphql** or ask your own!](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/graphql)

## Facebook Group

Join the [GraphQL Facebook Group](https://www.facebook.com/groups/graphql.community/) sharing and discovering new content. The GraphQL Facebook group is the preferred venue for announcements and broader discussion.

## Twitter

Use the [**#graphql** hashtag](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23GraphQL&src=tyah) on Twitter to join the conversation.

Here are some helpful accounts to follow:
- [@GraphQL](https://twitter.com/GraphQL)
- [@graphqlweekly](https://twitter.com/graphqlweekly)
- [@GraphQLStackOverflow](https://twitter.com/GraphQLatSO)
- [@apollographql](https://twitter.com/apollographql)
- [@prisma](https://twitter.com/prisma)
- [@HasuraHQ](https://twitter.com/HasuraHQ)

## IRC

Chat with GraphQL developers on IRC at the [freenode](https://freenode.net/) server on the #graphql channel.

## Slack & Discord

Many GraphQL developers idle in Discord and Slack chatrooms for live
communication and quick questions.

Join #graphql on the [ReactiFlux Discord](http://join.reactiflux.com/).

### Slack Communities:

- [**#general** on GraphQL](https://graphql.slack.com/messages/general/). [Get your invite here!](https://graphql-slack.herokuapp.com/)
- [Apollo Slack](http://apollostack.com/#slack)
- [Graphcool Slack](https://slack.graph.cool/)

## Blogs

Here are a list of notable blog posts to help you better understand GraphQL:

- [GraphQL: A data query language](/blog/graphql-a-query-language/) - Lee Byron
- [Subscriptions in GraphQL and Relay](/blog/subscriptions-in-graphql-and-relay/) - Dan Schafer and Laney Kuenzel
- [Mocking your server is easy with GraphQL](/blog/mocking-with-graphql/) - Jonas Helfer
- [Wrapping a REST API in GraphQL](/blog/rest-api-graphql-wrapper/) - Steven Luscher
- [Leaving technical preview](/blog/production-ready/) - Lee Byron
- [Relicensing the GraphQL specification](https://medium.com/@leeb/relicensing-the-graphql-specification-e7d07a52301b) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Introduction](https://facebook.github.io/react/blog/2015/05/01/graphql-introduction.html) - Nick Schrock
- [From REST to GraphQL](https://0x2a.sh/from-rest-to-graphql-b4e95e94c26b#.tag7nzkrb) - Jacob Gillespie
- [GraphQL Explained](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/graphql-explained-5844742f195e#.zdykxos6i) - Jonas Helfer
- [GraphQL Concepts Visualized](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/the-concepts-of-graphql-bc68bd819be3#.hfczgtdsj) - Dhaivat Pandya
- [Building the f8 App: Using GraphQL & Relay](http://makeitopen.com/docs/en/1-A2-relay.html)
- [Your First GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/the-graphqlhub/your-first-graphql-server-3c766ab4f0a2#.ovn0y19k4) - Clay Allsopp
- [Tutorial: Kick start a JS API with Apollo-server, Dataloader and Knex](https://bamtech.gitbook.io/dev-standards/backend/graphql-js/getting-started-with-apollo-server-dataloader-knex.mo) - Thomas Pucci
- [Tutorial: How to Build a GraphQL Server](https://medium.com/apollo-stack/tutorial-building-a-graphql-server-cddaa023c035#.bu6sdnst4) - Jonas Helfer
- [Designing Powerful APIs with GraphQL Query Parameters](https://www.graph.cool/docs/tutorials/designing-powerful-apis-with-graphql-query-parameters-aing7uech3/) - Johannes Schickling
- [GraphQL and the amazing Apollo Client](https://medium.com/google-developer-experts/graphql-and-the-amazing-apollo-client-fe57e162a70c) - Gerard Sans
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part I): The Schema](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-schema-ac5e2950214e) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part II): The Network Layer](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-the-network-layer-51d97d21861) - Nikolas Burk
- [GraphQL Server Basics (Part III): Demystifying the `info` argument in GraphQL resolvers](https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-server-basics-demystifying-the-info-argument-in-graphql-resolvers-6f26249f613a) - Nikolas Burk
- [A Beginner’s Guide to GraphQL](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-guide-to-graphql-86f849ce1bec/) - Leonardo Maldonado
- [Architecture of a high performance GraphQL to SQL engine](https://blog.hasura.io/architecture-of-a-high-performance-graphql-to-sql-server-58d9944b8a87) - Hasura

## Videos

Developers inside and outside of Facebook have given talks about GraphQL at conferences and meetups around the world. Here are some of our favorites:

- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQLzZf34FJ8) - Lee Byron, React Europe 2015
- [From Zero to GraphQL in 30 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UBGzsb2UkeY) - Steve Luscher
- [Exploring GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_9RgHXqH8J0) - Nick Schrock, @Scale 2015
- [GraphQL Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KOudxKJXsjc) - Nick Schrock, React Rally 2015
- [GraphQL at Facebook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etax3aEe2dA) - Dan Schafer, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL Source Code Overview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqtYr6RX32Q) - Lee Byron
- [GraphQL Future](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ViXL0YQnioU) - Lee Byron & Laney Kuenzel
- [Apollo Client: Put GraphQL Data in Your UI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u1E0CbGeICo) - Sashko Stubailo
- [Relay 2 - simpler, faster, and more predictable](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEfUBN9dAI8) - Greg Hurrell
- [Build a GraphQL server for Node.js, using PostgreSQL/MySQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DNPVqK_woRQ) - Lee Benson
- [A GraphQL Framework for Non-JS Servers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RNoyPSrQyPs) - Syrus Akbary
- [Modernize Your Angular App with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8feZBidZcs) - Uri Goldshtein, AngularCamp 2016
- [GraphQL server tutorial for Node.js with SQL, MongoDB and REST ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHabPhgRUuU) - Jonas Helfer
- [Building Native Mobile Apps with GraphQL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z5rz3saDPJ8) - Martjin Walraven, React Europe 2016
- [GraphQL in native applications](https://atscaleconference.com/videos/graphql-in-native-applications-at-scale/) - Igor Canadi & Alex Langenfeld, @Scale 2016
- [Build a GraphQL Backend with the Serverless Framework](https://acloud.guru/learn/serverless-with-graphql) - Ryan Brown
- [Build a Full GraphQL Backend in Under 5 Minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJ8pnYd6jPQ) - Michael Paris
- [GraphQL: From Zero to Scala](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ttypoLyRaU) - Jérémie Astori, Northeast Scala Symposium 2017
- [GraphQL in Production: Backend as a Service](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2NKoStGBvE) - Michael Paris & Vince Ning, GraphQL in Production Meetup SF August 2016
- [Development of real-time apps with GraphQL Node.js](https://youtu.be/yh_A6CEqsSM) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris, SF Node Meetup February 2017
- [Unleashing the power of GraphQL using Angular 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VYpJ9pfugM8) - Gerard Sans, NG-BE 2016
- [Webinar Series: GraphQL Around The World](https://graphql-world.com/webinar) - Vince Ning & Michael Paris
- [All Talks from GraphQL Europe](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn2e1F9Rfr6n_WFm9fPE-_wYPrYvSTySt) - Lee Byron, Sashko Stubailo, Dan Schafer, Johannes Schickling and many more
- [Learning GraphQL with React and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/learning-graphql-react-and-relay-video) by Divyendu Singh
- [Hands-on GraphQL for Better RESTful Web Services (Video)](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/hands-graphql-better-restful-web-services-video) by Ashwin Hegde
- [A PostgreSQL backed GraphQL BaaS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=neIZcc8y3B0) by Tanmai Gopal
- [Blazing-Fast Vue and GraphQL with Gridsome [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/blazing-fast-vue-and-graphql-with-gridsome-video?utm_source=graphql.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15688dollar5) by Reed Barger
- [Gatsby JS: Build PWA Blog with GraphQL, React and WordPress [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/programming/gatsby-js-build-pwa-blog-with-graphql-react-and-wordpress-video?utm_source=graphql.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15835dollar5) by Rangel Stoilov
- [Full-Stack React, Python, and GraphQL [Video]](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/full-stack-react-python-and-graphql-video?utm_source=graphql.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=OutreachV15708dollar5) by Reed Barger

## Books

- [The GraphQL Guide](https://graphql.guide) by John Resig and Loren Sands-Ramshaw
- [Learning GraphQL](https://www.amazon.com/Learning-GraphQL-Declarative-Fetching-Modern/dp/1492030716/) by Eve Porcello and Alex Banks
- [Fullstack GraphQL](https://www.graphql.college/fullstack-graphql) by Julian Mayorga
- [Craft GraphQL APIs in Elixir with Absinthe](https://pragprog.com/book/wwgraphql/craft-graphql-apis-in-elixir-with-absinthe) by Bruce Williams and Ben Wilson
- [Learning GraphQL and Relay](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/learning-graphql-and-relay) by Samer Buna
- [The Road to GraphQL](https://www.robinwieruch.de/the-road-to-graphql-book/) by Robin Wieruch

## More Resources

To explore other community-developed resources and content about GraphQL, take a look at these sites:

- [Exploring GraphQL: A Query Language For APIs](https://www.edx.org/course/exploring-graphql-a-query-language-for-apis): A free 7 week edX course
- [How to GraphQL](https://www.howtographql.com): The Fullstack Tutorial for GraphQL
- [Building Apollo](https://blog.apollographql.com)
- [awesome-graphql](https://github.com/chentsulin/awesome-graphql): A fantastic community maintained collection of libraries, resources, and more.
- [graphql-apis](https://github.com/APIs-guru/graphql-apis): A collective list of public GraphQL APIs.
- [Basically, Full-stack GraphQL](https://github.com/TejasQ/basically-fullstack-graphql): A code-based introduction to working with GraphQL on the client _and_ server in plain English
