site/community/Community-Events.md, before:

---
title: Upcoming Events
layout: ../_core/DocsLayout
category: Community
permalink: /community/upcoming-events/
sublinks: Upcoming Events,Meetups
---

## Upcoming Events

### GraphQL Summit

- **Date:** November 7-8, 2018
- **Location:** San Francisco, U.S.A.
- **Link:** https://summit.graphql.com

World's largest conference dedicated to GraphQL.

### GraphQL Conf Berlin 2019

- **Date:** June 20-21, 2019
- **Location:** Berlin, Germany
- **Link:** https://www.graphqlconf.org/

GraphQL Conf is a non-profit GraphQL conference in Europe with speakers from all around the world. Learn about GraphQL best practices from industry experts and become part of the thriving GraphQL community. 

## Meetups

### North America

- [GraphQL San Francisco](http://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-SF/)
- [GraphQL & Relay (San Francisco)](http://www.meetup.com/graphql/)
- [GraphQL Seattle](https://www.meetup.com/Seattle-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Toronto](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Toronto/)
- [GraphQL NYC](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-NYC/)
- [GraphQL Atlanta](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Atlanta/)
- [GraphQL Austin](https://www.meetup.com/ATX-GraphQL/)
- [GraphQL Los Angeles](https://www.meetup.com/Los-Angeles-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Dallas-Fort Worth](https://www.meetup.com/DFW-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Ottawa](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Ottawa/)
- [GraphQL Columbus](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Columbus/)
- [GraphQL Vancouver](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Vancouver/)
- [GraphQL Minneapolis](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-MN/)
- [GraphQL Denver/Boulder](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Denver-Boulder-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL By the Bay (San Francisco)](https://www.meetup.com/graphql-by-the-bay/)

### South America

- [GraphQL São Paulo](https://www.meetup.com/Apollo-GraphQL/)
- [GraphQL Buenos Aires](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-BA/)

### Europe

- [GraphQL Amsterdam](https://www.meetup.com/Amsterdam-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Berlin](https://www.meetup.com/graphql-berlin/)
- [GraphQL London](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-London)
- [GraphQL Paris](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Paris/)
- [GraphQL Munich](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Munich/)
- [GraphQL Barcelona](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Barcelona/)
- [GraphQL Stockholm](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Stockholm/)
- [GraphQL Budapest](https://www.meetup.com/Budapest-GraphQL/)
- [GraphQL Lisbon](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Lisbon/)
- [GraphQL Vienna](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Vienna/)

### Australia

- [GraphQL Melbourne](http://graphql.melbourne/)
- [GraphQL Sydney](https://graphql.sydney/)

### Asia

- [GraphQL Tel Aviv](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-TLV/)
- [GraphQL Tokyo](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Tokyo/)
- [GraphQL Meetup (Bangalore)](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Meetup (Bangkok)](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Bangkok/)

Commit message:

New GraphQL Event added
Added GraphQL Day event happening in Toronto in February.

site/community/Community-Events.md, after:

---
title: Upcoming Events
layout: ../_core/DocsLayout
category: Community
permalink: /community/upcoming-events/
sublinks: Upcoming Events,Meetups
---

## Upcoming Events

### GraphQL Day Toronto

- **Date:** February 28, 2019
- **Location:** Toronto, Canada
- **Link:** https://www.graphqlday.org/

GraphQL Day Toronto is a single-day conference focusing on all things GraphQL. Learn more about what GraphQL can do, hear from a lineup of thought leaders in the space, and meet other decision makers with similar issues that can be solved with GraphQL.

### GraphQL Summit

- **Date:** November 7-8, 2018
- **Location:** San Francisco, U.S.A.
- **Link:** https://summit.graphql.com

World's largest conference dedicated to GraphQL.

### GraphQL Conf Berlin 2019

- **Date:** June 20-21, 2019
- **Location:** Berlin, Germany
- **Link:** https://www.graphqlconf.org/

GraphQL Conf is a non-profit GraphQL conference in Europe with speakers from all around the world. Learn about GraphQL best practices from industry experts and become part of the thriving GraphQL community. 

## Meetups

### North America

- [GraphQL San Francisco](http://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-SF/)
- [GraphQL & Relay (San Francisco)](http://www.meetup.com/graphql/)
- [GraphQL Seattle](https://www.meetup.com/Seattle-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Toronto](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Toronto/)
- [GraphQL NYC](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-NYC/)
- [GraphQL Atlanta](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Atlanta/)
- [GraphQL Austin](https://www.meetup.com/ATX-GraphQL/)
- [GraphQL Los Angeles](https://www.meetup.com/Los-Angeles-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Dallas-Fort Worth](https://www.meetup.com/DFW-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Ottawa](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Ottawa/)
- [GraphQL Columbus](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Columbus/)
- [GraphQL Vancouver](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Vancouver/)
- [GraphQL Minneapolis](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-MN/)
- [GraphQL Denver/Boulder](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Denver-Boulder-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL By the Bay (San Francisco)](https://www.meetup.com/graphql-by-the-bay/)

### South America

- [GraphQL São Paulo](https://www.meetup.com/Apollo-GraphQL/)
- [GraphQL Buenos Aires](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-BA/)

### Europe

- [GraphQL Amsterdam](https://www.meetup.com/Amsterdam-GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Berlin](https://www.meetup.com/graphql-berlin/)
- [GraphQL London](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-London)
- [GraphQL Paris](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Paris/)
- [GraphQL Munich](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Munich/)
- [GraphQL Barcelona](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Barcelona/)
- [GraphQL Stockholm](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Stockholm/)
- [GraphQL Budapest](https://www.meetup.com/Budapest-GraphQL/)
- [GraphQL Lisbon](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Lisbon/)
- [GraphQL Vienna](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Vienna/)

### Australia

- [GraphQL Melbourne](http://graphql.melbourne/)
- [GraphQL Sydney](https://graphql.sydney/)

### Asia

- [GraphQL Tel Aviv](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-TLV/)
- [GraphQL Tokyo](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Tokyo/)
- [GraphQL Meetup (Bangalore)](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Meetup/)
- [GraphQL Meetup (Bangkok)](https://www.meetup.com/GraphQL-Bangkok/)
