src/content/foundation/Contact.md, before:

---
title: Contact the GraphQL Foundation
sidebarTitle: Contact us
heroText: The GraphQL Foundation is here to help.
layout: foundation
category: GraphQL Foundation
permalink: /foundation/contact/
sublinks: Membership Inquiries,Membership Support,Meeting Logistics,Trademark Requests,Media Inquries,Technical Issues,General
next: /foundation/annual-reports/
---

The GraphQL Foundation is supported by staff from [The Linux Foundation](https://linuxfoundation.org). If you have questions, please reach out to us using the links below.

*Please note that we do not provide user support for GraphQL. If you have an implementation question,
please use the [relevant community channels](/community/).*

## Membership Inquiries

If you would like to learn more about becoming a GraphQL member, please email
[membership@graphql.org](mailto:membership@graphql.org).

## Membership Support

If you are already a member of the [GraphQL Foundation](/foundation/) and you need help with your membership, please reach out to [operations@graphql.org](mailto:operations@graphql.org).

## Meeting Logistics

Governing board and Working Group members who need help with meeting logistics (setting up a Zoom conference, adding or changing a calendar entry, designating an alternate representative, etc.) can reach out to [operations@graphql.org](mailto:operations@graphql.org) with their request.

## Trademark Requests

For guidance using the GraphQL trademark and brand see our [brand guidelines](/brand). For trademark licensing questions or requests please reach out to [info@graphql.org](mailto:info@graphql.org?subject=Trademark%20Request).

## Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, please reach out to [pr@graphql.org](mailto:pr@graphql.org).

## Technical Issues

To report a technical issue with GraphQL, please use the [community channels](/community/).

## General

For all other inquiries, please email [info@graphql.org](mailto:info@graphql.org).

Our mailing address is:

> **GraphQL Foundation**
> 548 Market St
> PMB 57274
> San Francisco, California
> 94104-5401 US

Commit message:

Update contact info with links to member service desk
Signed-off-by: Brian Warner <brian@bdwarner.com>

src/content/foundation/Contact.md, after:

---
title: Contact the GraphQL Foundation
sidebarTitle: Contact us
heroText: The GraphQL Foundation is here to help.
layout: foundation
category: GraphQL Foundation
permalink: /foundation/contact/
sublinks: Membership Inquiries,Membership Support,Meeting Logistics,Trademark Requests,Media Inquries,Technical Issues,General
next: /foundation/annual-reports/
---

The GraphQL Foundation is supported by staff from [The Linux Foundation](https://linuxfoundation.org). If you have questions, please reach out to us using the links below.

*Please note that we do not provide user support for GraphQL. If you have an implementation question,
please use the [relevant community channels](/community/).*

## Membership Inquiries

If you would like to learn more about becoming a GraphQL member, please email
[membership@graphql.org](mailto:membership@graphql.org).

## Membership Support

If you are already a member of the [GraphQL Foundation](/foundation/) and you need help with your membership, please file an issue with our [member service desk](https://members.graphql.org).

## Meeting Logistics

Governing board and Working Group members who need help with meeting logistics (setting up a Zoom conference, adding or changing a calendar entry, designating an alternate representative, etc.) can reach out through our [member service desk](https://members.graphql.org).

## Trademark Requests

For guidance using the GraphQL trademark and brand see our [brand guidelines](/brand). For trademark licensing questions or requests please reach out to [info@graphql.org](mailto:info@graphql.org?subject=Trademark%20Request).

## Media Inquiries

For media inquiries, please reach out to [pr@graphql.org](mailto:pr@graphql.org).

## Technical Issues

To report a technical issue with GraphQL, please use the [community channels](/community/).

## General

For all other inquiries, please email [info@graphql.org](mailto:info@graphql.org).

Our mailing address is:

> **GraphQL Foundation**
> 548 Market St
> PMB 57274
> San Francisco, California
> 94104-5401 US
