src/content/foundation/GraphQLConf.md, before:

---
title: GraphQL Conf 2022
sidebarTitle: GraphQL Conf
heroText: The GraphQL Foundation-hosted event for spec and implementation contributors!
layout: conf
category: GraphQL Foundation
permalink: /foundation/graphql-conf/
next: /foundation/community-grant/
---

The GraphQL Foundation's inaugural GraphQL Conf will be co-located with [OpenJS World](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/) and [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/) in Austin, TX on June 7-8, 2022. This collaborator summit-style event will be an opportunity for core GraphQL spec and implementation developers to meet in-person, discuss recent work, and plan for the future. All attendees of OpenJS World and CDcon are welcome.

Talks are expected to include:

* Recent activity in the GraphQL specification working group, such as Defer and Stream, Input Unions, and Client-Controlled Nullability.
* Downstream implementations of GraphQL
* Security considerations
* Common practices and lessons learned

The [CFP is now open](https://cfp.graphql.org), and we will be collecting submissions through midnight PDT on April 15, 2022. For those who cannot attend, we will be recording the sessions and posting them to [our YouTube channel](https://youtube.graphql.org).

GraphQL Conf will be held in a shared space. To join us, please register for [OpenJS World](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/) or [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/).

If you are interested in sponsoring the event space, we encourage you to check out [OpenJS World](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/) or [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/)!

If you have any questions, please contact [info@graphql.org](mailto:info@graphql.org).

Commit message:

Update GraphQL Conf 2022 content to be past tense (#1335)
A few small adjustments to better reflect the fact that GraphQL
Conf happened a few months ago.

src/content/foundation/GraphQLConf.md, after:

---
title: GraphQL Conf 2022
sidebarTitle: GraphQL Conf
heroText: The GraphQL Foundation-hosted event for spec and implementation contributors!
layout: conf
category: GraphQL Foundation
permalink: /foundation/graphql-conf/
next: /foundation/community-grant/
---

The GraphQL Foundation's inaugural GraphQL Conf was co-located with [OpenJS World](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openjs-world/) and [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon/) in Austin, TX on June 7-8, 2022. This collaborator summit-style event provided an opportunity for core GraphQL spec and implementation developers to meet in-person, discuss recent work, and plan for the future. All attendees of OpenJS World and cdCon were welcome.

Talks covered:

* Recent activity in the GraphQL specification working group, such as Defer and Stream, Input Unions, and Client-Controlled Nullability.
* Downstream implementations of GraphQL
* Security considerations
* Common practices and lessons learned

Recordings of the sessions are available on [our YouTube channel](https://youtube.graphql.org).
